From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 11 recorded live
Thursday, April 15th, 2010. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Telerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Jeff Atwood on
the future of stack overflow.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And on
this episode, we've got Jeff
Atwood, Jeff Atwood from coding
horror and from stack overflow.
How's it going? Oh, going
good. So I've we haven't
been able to get our
fix of the stack overflow
podcast lately. So I figured
we gotta to have you
on this, on this show.
What's what's going on with
the show? Yeah, this shows
a little bit in limbo.
I think Joel felt like
two things with one. So
Joel Spolsky my business partner
decided that he was sort
of done with blogging after.
Oh, he doesn't even like
to it a blog because
he's so old school, but
he's been doing it 10
years now. And I think
he felt like he had
plateaued. He had done everything
he wanted to do in
that format. And I think
the podcast is a little
bit of collateral damage. And
also in that we felt
like it was getting a
little tiny bit repetitive that,
you know, so we, we
thought we'd refocus and try
to figure out what the
next thing is for the
podcast. And we still haven't
really figured that out yet.
So we're working on it,
but it might come back.
It's not dead, but like,
yeah, like, you know, like
a Caterpillar turning into a
butterfly, we're going to turn
into something else. We're not
sure what that something else
is yet, but we'll see.
Sounds like Joel might be
tired of being famous. I
think he is definitely a
little tired of being famous
and particularly being famous within
our little niche of, you
know, technology. I think he,
he is ready to do
something else. Okay. How long
have you been blogging? He's
been blogging for 10 plus
years. How long when did
you start? I think he,
he started and I think
like 1999 or 2000. And
then I started in, in
2004 about mid 2004, actually.
So essentially we're not that
far apart, but I was
describing it to someone else
and I realized that these
waves weren't that far apart.
If you look at people
that were, you know, old
school, you know, OJI, original
bloggers, they started, some of
them started in like in
the nineties, which is amazing,
but a lot of them
started around the year 2000.
So it was only really
a four year headstart for
the real leaders that actually
doesn't seem like that much
time in the big scheme
of things. But it's certainly
much to start now with
a blog than it used
to be. Cause there's so
many more of them. It's
just, it's just crazy how
time works. I guess I
used to do a blog
a day. You had like
legendary like tempo. It was
just like every weekday without
fail. There was a blog
post, but, and you'd always
talked about, is it, is
it more fun to talk
about writing software than writing
software and then you, you,
you blog less and less,
I assume, cause you're writing
software now. It's not so
much. So, so really the
work I'm doing with stack
overflow is very complimentary to
what I write about on
coding horror. Because when I
sort of went full time
with my blog, one of
the things I said, and
I still believe this is
you can't really just be
a blogger. That's kind of
boring. You're not really doing
anything. You're just like a
pundit. So I wanted to
create something and that's something
ended up being core stack
overflow in the family of
sites around stack overflow. And
I love working on that.
I mean, it's fascinating. I
enjoy it tremendously, but it
does affect your writing and
not so much the, the,
the fact that I'm writing
software. So we're running a
business that takes like a
lot of effort, like just
running a business is, is
very fatiguing. There's just a
lot of things that have
to go on that aren't
necessarily software that you just
have to get done. And
definitely I, if I had
to characterize like what, what
takes the most time? It's
just the running a small
business takes a lot of
time. Can't you hire another
small business to do that?
Like, is it the administrivia
of it? Or what is
it that takes the time?
It's hard to characterize everything
that takes all the time.
I think it's just really
well. We did hire a
community moderator. So we have
a, well, a person whose
full time job. It is
to be a sociologist slash
school principal and, and look
at the community and figure
out where it's going and
things like that. But right
now he's focused on the
stack exchange side because of
all the big changes there.
So that's a help, but
I think also just figuring
out like, strategy, like what
it is you're doing, like
where you're going. There's just
a lot of things going
on particularly right now, because
you know, we're, we're taking
a venture capital and there's
a lot of things that
are gonna change about the
company. So what you're now
public, so that's good. Cause
I can finally talk about
them. That was really frustrating.
Not being able to talk
about it and even, well,
technically the venture capital dealer
hasn't closed. We believe it
will soon. I can't say
who it is and all
that stuff, but so hopefully
everything within a month or
two, everything will be public
and sort of back to
normal. I think it's also
a very hectic time at
the moment. Well, that's cool.
Well, congratulations on the venture
capital and that's a tool.
That's a good thing, right?
Yeah, we think so. I
mean, Joel, it's funny for
Joel because Joel had come
out very anti venture capital
and I was not a
fan of it either, but
what we found was that
if you want to really
grow, like I like him
this an SIM city, so
you're playing SIM city. And
if you've ever played some
city, there's a point at
which you're growing your city,
that you need a whole
bunch of money to just
like just stuff you need
stuff to make your city
grow. And it's this weird
catch 22 of, without this
infrastructure stuff. I can't bring
more people in, you know,
and if I don't have
the money, I can't get
the people. So like you
do the thing, you float
a bond and that's like
he, in every, every game
you'll ever play of some
city, there's some point in
which you find this massive
bond, which is like a
big chunk of money that
you use to build your
city. And then you're just
assuming that at the end
of this period, when the
bond comes up, you'll have
the money because you'll grow
to a certain size. So
really it's exactly like that.
So we're really just floating
and blond, a bond of
trying to grow where you
feel like are constraining resources,
just not having enough people
to do things. And you
know, people cost money and
that's fine. I'm very happy
to spend money on hiring
great people. It's I love
nothing more than that, rather
than say hardware or whatever,
which is replaceable, but we're
going to flip this bond
and then, you know, grow
the sites. And then hopefully
at the end of that,
we'll have something large enough
that, you know, the venture
capitalist will at least make
their money back or ideally
make more money back. How
big do you want to
be? Do you want to
be like a top 10
internet site? Like Wikipedia type
thing? I think we'd be
getting a little too big
for what we want to
do. I would like to
be quite large because I
think there's certain benefits you
only get at scale. And
when I say quite large,
I don't mean like all
of the programming because that's
maybe not a big enough
topic, but I would like
to cover a bunch of
related topics. And that's sort
of what stack exchange 2.0
is about, which is on
blog. That's tech exchange.com. It's
not the top posts anymore,
but it's right under it
where we talked about, we
want to kind of be
like using that 2.0 a
little bit. And the way
I view this as we're
not really, we're not a
nonprofit, I can't say that
we're a nonprofit because we're
not, we are a for
profit company, but I would
like us to really behave
as much as possible, like
a nonprofit. In other words,
we're trying to build things
that are of general utility
to the internet and actually
provide a better forum for
people to get information than
what's already out there, not
just on programming, but a
bunch of other related topics.
And to do that, I
think in a credible way,
I think you have to
get fairly large. You have
to be, I don't want
to say Facebook size or
Twitter size, but very, very
sizeable. And you know, the
hope is with the venture
capital that we'll have enough
people to actually cover a
lot of these other topics
and make a credible go
at like covering topics and
on blogs, like stack exchange.com.
If you read through there,
there's like this plan. We're
really, it's when I brought
up some city, it was
for a reason, this is
really like city. This is
like urban planning. We're trying
to build an environment where
people can come and participate
and actually, you know, govern
this area as well. You
know, we're going to elect
moderators, there's going to be
site founders. You'll of course
get a beta badge for
participating in the beta. And
just the concept that you're
building a community that's self-governing
in a way that using
that kind of wasn't and
in a way that Wikipedia
maybe kind of is as
well. And the thing I
want to avoid is sort
of the Craigslist phenomenon where
Craigslist is this huge, huge
deal. I mean, Craig was,
is enormous and who really
runs Craigslist. You know, it's
not you, it's not me.
It's this cabal of people
at Craigslist, you know? And
there's no, yeah, it's crazy.
But who knows? I mean,
Craig's not Republic about why
they do things, how they
do things and we're trying
to build, and they're for
profit company, they're not a
nonprofit. Right. And I think
we're trying to do a
little bit more ethically than,
than what Craigslist is doing,
where the community actually has
a say a political, there's
a mini political process of
them running the city. That's
actually documented and okay. Okay.
So I mean, on Craigslist,
certainly the community owns the
content, but you're saying they
don't own the direction of
the site. They don't own
the functionality of the site
and you want to have
the community owned, both the
content and the direction. That's
right. That's right. Definitely. I
mean, there'll be certain city
planners that you work with
figuring out like what you
want for your community. And
you know, there's things it's
still a Q and a
type format. I mean, it
has to sit within our
format, but I think there's
a, there's going to be
a lot of flexibility. I
think QA is such a
large set of functionality that
I think you can cover
a lot of communities, but
I really want it to
be, you know, of the
community by the community, for
the community and our, our
top line goal. The thing
that Joel and I agree
on just intimately is that
we want to make the
internet better. We're not going
to do anything. That's going
to damage the fabric of
the internet. The whole purpose
of this exercise is to
get better information on the
internet faster so that people
can follow your trail of
breadcrumbs. And actually, you know,
the next future traveler to
happen upon your question will
get an answer immediately. Cause
it's already there. And you
know, the principle of just
being able to share your
knowledge, show off what you
know, which programmers love. I
mean, programmers love nothing more
than telling you what they
know and how they did
things. And, and that's great
because you know, other programmers
benefit from that. This is
how this is how young
programmers become better. You know,
older, talented programmers is they
learn from us. So if
we're not out there, you
know, putting these public artifacts
on the internet for people
to follow and look at
and learn from then, you're
not really advancing the craft
of programming, right? I mean,
how many people can you
mentor on a one to
one basis? Probably not many,
but through the internet. And
you know, you could mentor
programmers all over the world,
these little nuggets of information
you're leaving on stack overflow.
So we want to extend
that model to, you know,
as many topics as it
fits. We realized that QA
may or may not fit
for some topics. So we
don't have to own the
world. And that sense I'm
not going to force a
fit. And in fact, this
process that's described on the
stack exchange blog, we're actually
going to shut down the
site. If they don't reach
a certain size or a
certain critical mass, we're going
to actually, rather than have
all these ghost towns of
just, you know, not enough
information, we're actually going to
shut the site down, archive
the information so anybody can
get to it. Cause everything
we do is, is creative
commons. So it's always available.
It's never destroyed. And then
we'll just close down the
site. Cause we'd rather a
ghost town is a net
negative for the internet because
it draws occasionally someone will
get sucked in there. It's
like, Oh look, there's a
place where there's information, but
it's really a ghost town.
There's nobody there. There's nobody
answering questions. You know, it's
just not really a functioning
community. It's like driving through
the bad part of town.
You know, we're not going
to leave that up. So
as part of our urban
planning mission, we were just
going to raise the ears
of the town that, that
aren't working and rebuild them
as something else. So we're
not shy about turning things
off. It's not working either.
What about turning? What about
turning things on? What about
adding things? I mean, you're
saying like meant you're using
words like mentorship and learning,
but the sites primarily focused
around targeted answers, targeted answers
to targeted questions. Well, but
how do you learn? I
mean, you look at the
Socratic method, right? It's like
to ask questions, you know,
of your teacher. And I
think Q and a is
an, is an outstanding format
for learning. I've had so
many people tell me on
stack overflow that they learned
Ruby from answering questions on
stack overflow life. It's actually,
didn't never even occurred to
me, but I was at
the dev days in LA
and this guy came up
to me and I've had
a number of people since
then. Tell me how they
act, actively learn new topics
in this format. Which surprised
me a little bit, because
I think you can learn.
My view was of course
you're learning, but I viewed
it as learning within your
existing discipline. I learned something
new about, you know, C
sharp, which is what I
use, but they were actually
learning completely unrelated programming languages
by like trying to answer
these people's questions and figuring
out what it took to
answer these questions. So you're
saying like, like newbies answering
other newbies questions about language
that they don't speak Pretty
much. I know it's surprising.
Right. But I think, yeah,
it actually worked that way.
I never predicted that particularly
is Wow. That is interesting.
Yeah. Huh. Wait, wait, you
asked a question about how
these sites will get formed.
So again, we're getting a
lot of inspiration from, from
using that, not entirely, but
like are one of the
top lines is maybe we're
trying to be used at
2.0 and in a, in
a small, on a smaller
scale than, than using it.
And, and the way topics
are gonna get formed is
there's this there's this other
site you'll go to, we
haven't come up with a
really good name for this
yet, but let's call it
new sites. So you go
to the new sites site
and you'll propose, there should
be a stack overflow like
site on, I don't know
dogs. So you'd say I'm
proposing. We have a stack
overflow in dogs. So you
have to come up with
a paragraph describing what it
is. Okay. So it's like
for dogs, just talk about
dog breeding and talk about
dog, grooming anything about dogs.
And then you have to
come up with five representative
questions that will be on
for this site and five
questions that will be off
topic for this site. And
I mean off topic in
a subtle way, not, you
know, aren't cats. Awesome. You
know, I mean, or why
is the sky blue? It's
gotta be some subtle thing.
That's about dogs, but it's
not really about dogs enough
to be on, on topic.
Because what we found is
one of the biggest challenges
for a community is you
have to define the boundaries
of that community. It's like,
what, what, what, what do
we love and what do
we hate? So that's, to
me, that's what defines the
community. You love the same
things and you hate the
same things. So for programmers,
it's that we love code,
you know, and it doesn't
really matter what language it
is. You know what I
mean? I think that's a
false assumption. A lot of,
a lot of people made
about programmers. Like, Oh, there
should be a C sharp
site because the.net guys hate
the Java guys. And on
stack overflow, we realize that's
not really true, good programmers
know more than one language.
And they don't hate people
that use a different language.
Cause that's stupid, right? Because
our shared goal is like,
let's write awesome code. That
does cool stuff. That's what
we love. And the thing
that we hate as programmers
is bad code, you know,
code that just makes you
cry. You know that you
have to maintain this. This
guy had no idea what
he's doing. He wrote this
terrible code that makes your
life miserable. That's what you
want to get rid of.
Right? And that's where the
learning vector comes in. Ideally,
you want to teach these
bad programmers, the ones that
can be reached, you want
to teach them how to
do a better, so they're
not creating all this bad
code. That's one that's cleaned
up. So with programmers, we
know we know what they
love and we know what
they hate because I mean,
I'm a programmer, you're a
programmer. This is easy right
now for topics that like
dogs, it's like, okay, you
know what a dog lovers
love, you know, and what
do they hate? And I
think the, what do they
hate part gets difficult because
I think dog, you know,
you'd have to, you have
to define it. And if
you don't define the boundaries
of the community, then the
community kind of falls apart
because it's either too general.
In which case these people
have nothing really in common
or there's people who don't
like each other on the
same site or have like
totally radically different interests. Like
one thing that came up
when we were at fog
Creek, we're in New York for
a week trying to figure
out what it is we're
doing. I was talking to
Michael Pryor, who is Joel's
business partner. And he's a
big aquarium guy. He's a
big aquarium hobbyist. And he
was mentioning to me that
there should be an aquarium
site, perhaps that's something we
can put together. And when
I was talking to Michael,
I was like, Oh yeah,
cool. Everybody who loves aquariums
could be on the site.
And he said, no, no,
no, no. It was like,
no, no, no, not the
freshwater people. The freshwater people
have to can't be on
our site because apparently in
aquariums, there's freshwater and saltwater.
And so order is like
way harder. That's like, like
science. And like, it's just,
I don't know anything about
aquariums, but from what he
was telling me, it's like,
it's just this whole different
world. And they don't want
to say despise is not
the right word, but they
have no respect for the
freshwater Korean people because they,
Michael said, yeah, it was
a freshwater. You just throw
some water in a bucket
and you throw some fish
in and you're done, you
know, it's really, there's nothing
to it. It's it's silly.
You know? So you could
make the case that if
you start an aquarium site,
I didn't know that, but
this is something we want
to figure out as part
of this process is when
you start this aquarium site,
the off topic questions would
be, Oh, this is a
freshwater aquarium question. This doesn't
belong here because this is
a site for people who
love saltwater aquariums. So we
have to figure out in
advance. Yeah. And we didn't
really do a good job
of that on, we did
an okay job on stack
overflow, but we moved into
server fault and super user.
I don't think we did
a very good job of
deciding ahead of time, you
know, which questions would be,
you know, how do we
map the boundaries of this
and having concrete examples of
specific questions that people ask
that are either on or
off topic for the site.
So that's step one is
to come up with this
proposal with 10 questions, you
know, five on five off
the topic, and then people
will sort of vote on
those and say, which ones
do you like? Those will
get sorted, of course, like
on stack overflow and go
to the top. And then
there's a phase two where
you actually commit to the
size. You can only commit
to one site per cycle
and you have to have
reputation within the stack overflow
system to do some of
this. But we will allow
people from just random internet.
People contribute to this as
well. There's this weighting system.
So if you're say John
skeet, who happens to be
the number one user on
stack overflow, your contribution, when
you say I commit to
the site that carries a
lot of weight because we
know a couple things about
you. We know, Hey, you're
an experienced user. You have
lots of reputation. The, you
have a track record of
precinct, really, really good content
that other people loaded up.
And, and probably just, you
know, LUNGevity, you've been around
awhile. So your vote will
carry more weight, but you
know, random anonymous internet users
can vote as well. Their
vote will be like a
fraction of John skeeves, but
if there's enough of them,
there's a little meter, you
know, what's the Y YMCA,
when they're doing this fun
drive, they have a thermometer
like, Oh, we're raising money,
you know, 10,000, 20,000, 30,000,
there's a giant thermometer for
each one of these sites.
And as people commit to
them, remember, you can only
commit to one site per
cycle. So you can't commit
to five or six things.
Cause we think that's ridiculous.
It's like, are you really
going to go to six
different sites? Hey, it's alternate
universe, Scott Hanselman going to
thank our sponsors for making
this free show possible. We've
been doing Hansel minutes for
almost four years now and
we really couldn't do it
without tolerance. So I wanna
tell you about some of
the stuff they're working on.
If you've already started developing
with Silverlight, then now you
probably need a solid testing
tool to do your serval
at UIs. Unfortunately, though, a
lot of the tools available
today only help you with
unit testing. There's not really
a good way to simulate
the actual behavior of those
end users, unless you spend
days and weeks doing a
lot of manual testing, but
the guys at Tellerik, you've
got a new point, click
UI testing tool for server
Silverlight called web UI test
studio. The beauty is that
you can quickly record your
tests with a cross-browser recorder.
You can enrich them with
code. If you've got really
complex scenarios. And on top
of that, it supports all
the standard controls as well
as the Tellerik enhanced controls.
You can verify not only
several life, but even complex
Ajax applications, best part web
UI test studio lives in
visual studio. So you don't
have to leave your favorite
development environment. You check it
out at telerik.com/web hyphen testing,
hyphen tools, and be sure
to thank Tellerik for supporting
the show on their Facebook
fan page at facebook.com/telerik. I
mean, it may be the
John skeet is really into
it. Let's go back to
our aquariums example. Maybe John
skeet is really into salt
water aquarium. I didn't know
that. I mean, programmers have
a lot of really cool
interests. I mean, we're just
talking about smart people who
do interesting stuff, so he
might have that interest. So
he would commit to that
in the cycle. And then
as the thermometer fills up,
eventually you reach a threshold
and those are the sites
that actually go into beta.
And you know how you
have a beta site, there's
a private beta people feed
it. And then there's a
public beta. It's very much
like the process we did
when we launched server fault
and super user, we had
this process, but it was
a very ad hoc process
that we just came up
with like, Oh, we should
have a beta. We should
have a private beta. We
should have a public beta.
We should come up with
a logo. We should come
up with the name, all
this stuff that we were
doing in an ad hoc
way is going to be
documented and sort of, I
don't wanna say formalized to
some extent complicated, but it
will walk you through the
process of doing this. And
it's the community deciding, you
know, rather than us sitting
in a room saying, what
should we have new sites
on the community can actually
decide what new sites there
need to be. And then
over time, our hope is
my hope is I talked
about the technical ghetto that
I feel like we're sometimes
in a, as we take
baby steps. Okay. So we
start with stack overflow, you
have a programmer that loves
aquariums. So that programmer would
vote for the salt water
cream site and participate on
it. And hopefully it would
do well and succeed. And
then in the next cycle,
somebody on the aquarium site,
maybe they're not even a
program or maybe they found
us through, you know, an
internet search and like, Oh
wow, this is a great
site for saltwater aquarium. And
it's just like myself, that
person would have another shared
interest. Let's say, you know,
dogs, that's a simple one.
And then that person not
even being a programmer would
then vote for launching a
dog site. I mean, that's,
that's the hope is that
we're going to take these
baby steps outside the technical
ghetto and actually eventually maybe
bring in people that, you
know, aren't technical at all,
but, but are willing to
participate in this sort of
democratic process of how should
we launch these sites if
you like this format and
you think it works well,
what other topics would you
like there to be? And
that you would actively participate
in the old SAC exchange
model was, you know, pay
us $129 a month and
you can watch this bet
on any topic. But what
we found was that, and
I guess I've always known
this is that money is
like not really a good
glue for sticking people together.
The glue that sticks people
together is shared love of
a topic and yeah, they
weren't really poised for success.
Well, yeah, they weren't really
poised for success. Joel has
a nice little Venn diagram
on the blog entry on
blog that stack exchange a
com the documents is like,
okay, you have the intersection
of people who have hundred
$29 a month who have
the ability to bring in
an audience. And there's like
two of the things, and
this success is like this
tiny little sliver of a
Venn diagram, right? So our
hope is to widen that
Venn diagram to make it
so that communities can actually
be successful because we'll be
supporting you, we'll be helping
you drive traffic to the
sites. We'll provide experienced users
that are interested in the
topic and the goal isn't
to make money, because that's
just a tough goal to
get people behind. Because I
mean, that's not really my
goal. You know, it's like,
it's shared love of the
topic and that, you know,
we're producing better information on
this topic for the entire
internet to benefit from. And
we learned from it, you
know, to me, what motivates
me is that I get
excited about it. I just
love to learn about a
topic like I love to
learn. And I love to
share my information, share information
about that topic with other
people in a way that,
you know, you have this
nice virtuous cycle going, you
know, I help you, you
help me. And we're both
learning. That's awesome. It's like
everyday I learned more stuff.
And I think those are
the types of people. We
want to attract people that
are really interested in sharing
their knowledge about the topic
and learning from others about
it. And that's the loop
that we want to close.
And, you know, although we
are a for profit company,
I've been basically just saying,
it's like, I want to
run very, very similarly to
a nonprofit in a sense
that what, I'm very clear
that, you know, we have
to have money to run
as a business, but the
top line goal is to
make the internet better and
to provide better places, to
get information about these things
that you love and to
share it. So it's a
little bit of a religious
mission for me, but I
feel like that's, that's what
I've seen work on the
internet. And that's, those are
the communities that I love.
And that's the kind of
thing that I want to
be a part of. So,
I mean, we'll see where
it goes, but that's, that's
the current plan. Let me
ask you this. There are
the, the, the information dense
homepage of stack overflow and
the kind of like intense
focus on the minutia of
statistics is attractive for a
nerd, but for a someone
doing cross stitching, that might
be pretty scary. And they
might jump on the site
and go, ah, where, you
know, what, what, what weird
corner of the internet have
I come upon? Well, you
know, forums sites and kind
of PHB, there might be
an existing cross stitching or,
or a saltwater aquarium site,
but it also has got
to like a nice skin
on it. That's more than
just changing the color and
adding a logo. Is there,
there may be a huge
community that wants a stack
overflow like Q and a
site, but they would like
it to look like their
site. Is that, is that
possible? Or we'll stack overflow
always look like kind of
a car dashboard? Well, I
think you have to quantify,
there's, there's really a couple
of key pages on stack
overflow. It's kinda depressing from
a coding perspective cause we've
spent all this time working
on it and you realize
on stack overflow is basically
like five pages on the
entire site, but five really
awesome pages, right? So there's
the user page that describes
who user is, what questions
they have, all that stuff.
Do you have your user
page, the homepage big and
then question pages. So really
actually there's, there's more actually,
but those three are pretty
much the backbone of the
site. So I don't think
the question page itself is
that intimidating. So when people
talk about this and I
agree that the homepage is
very dense, but by design,
the question page is nothing
intimidating. That's where most people
will end up because Google
is not going to send
you to the homepage, you
know, or whatever web search
engine you use. It's not
going to send you the
homepage. It's going to send
you to some page that
has the answer to some
question that you, that you
typed into a search box
on a web search page.
I don't think that page
is really that intimidating. So
I think it's a little
bit of an unfair comparison.
Now, the homepage I'll admit
it's very dense, but the
goal of the homepage, it's
almost like Wikipedia, where how
many people do you know
that actually edit a Wikipedia
page? You know, we make
a lot of noise about
how great it is that
look P is the shared
thing. And the actual, the
actual editing of a Wikipedia
page is very, very intimidating,
extremely. So it kind of
freaks me out and I'm
a programmer, right? It's like,
well, how do I do
this? And we're, you know,
I click edit. And then
I have this incredibly complicated
process. I don't think our
homepage is, is that it's
okay for the homepage to
be a bit of a
barrier. So when you, when
you come on the homepage,
you should be inundated with
information about, okay, this is
what this is about. You
know, here's a bunch of
questions. Here's the topics, which
is the tags. The homepage
has really, you're not supposed
to understand it. The only
thing the homepage is supposed
to do you say, wow,
this is a place where
there's a lot of X
and we're X. And if
X is something that you're
like, wow, I really love
X. Then, then that's good.
Right? You should be hanging
out there and you should
like click through. Well, that's
an interesting question. That's interesting
question. That's an interesting question.
I wonder if anybody has
answered this and I don't
think it's actually that much
more dense than the average
bulletin board page. The average
and bulletin board page is
actually quite dense with a
lot of really incidental information.
So that all that said,
we are open to CSS,
skinning of the sites. Every
site that we launched should
have a somewhat unique look,
not entirely. I mean, there's
like a Joel, this is
maybe not the best analogy
in the world, but you
know, the dummies books, you
have those have a certain
look, you know, every time
you go to a bookstore,
it's like, Oh, that's a
dummies book, right? Because it
has that yellow thing. And
it's got that guy with
the chalkboard or whatever. We
wouldn't want to have some
recognizability to the brand so
people can recognize, okay, you're
a screwdriver. You look like
a screwdriver. So we're not
going to switch it up.
So radically, the people can't
tell, Oh, this is a
stack overflow family site, but
doing stuff like turning off
the views columns, you're like,
okay, now there's too much
numbers on this page for
this one site. I don't
want the views column to
be visible. There are stack
exchange sites that have already
done this. So, and we
have two designers now going
through doing a CSS, Zen
garden type of exercise with
us where they're producing five
CSS skins, each other, that
we can then use as
a palette for launching new
sites, like, okay, we have
these 10 CSS designs or
you can create your own,
you know, so, so we
do want to give people
a menu of sorts so
they can make the site
look kind of like what
they want, but we do
want to have a consistent
theme within the, within the,
the network of like, okay,
it's recognizably a, a stack
site. Right? So I think
those are really the two
goals At two questions. Then
one, I think I'm thinking
of my, my, my dad
as being kind of a
surprisingly typical internet user in
that I went over to
his house and set up
his browser and basically putting
like a bookmark bar. And
I put in like the
five sites that he visits.
So well for one level
of internet user, you know,
Google or a search engine
is there on ramp to
the internet. I'm realizing that
a surprisingly massive number of
people don't use Google that
much. They have they've they've,
they've used it before. They've
picked their sites and now
they have their sites and
their on ramp to the
inner map. And their internet
is a favorites bar, a
bookmark bar, or some links
somewhere. My dad visits five
websites. Sadly one of them
is mine, but he does
like traditional. He does traditional
bow hunting and archery, like
the way the native Americans
did it. So he has
like three websites. He visits
that are like, go out
into the woods, find a
tree, cut the tree up
and come out with a
bow and arrow. And it
takes like seven weeks and
a bunch of lacquer. And
it's an incredibly complicated thing.
It's, it's a lot like
saltwater aquariums. And I think
that would be like, that's
cool. It would be ideal
for what you're doing, but,
but knowing these guys, and
these are like, these are
like mustache people. And you
know what I mean by
that, like you're in America,
you're your generation is defined
by, you know, the thickness
and quality of your mustache.
And these gentlemen all looked
like Magnum PI, you know
what I'm saying? If you
decide to rock a stash,
that's that thick and wonderful,
you know, you're either a
civil war reenactor or you're
like in your sixties, so
I totally get it. Okay,
good. So these are those,
these are those guys. Those
guys could not absorb just
because it's generational. I'm not
saying they're older, smarter, not
smarter. They're just different people.
They could never absorb. I
think the amount of information
you have on the homepage
of stack overflow. So it
would be interesting to see,
like, to, to optimize what
a, what a stack overflow
site would look like for
that, for the folks like
that. And then my second
kind of half, half question
related is a lot of
times they're just kind of
just chatting. They're just talking,
where would, where would just
talking? I mean, is every,
is every discussion started by
a question? I guess there's
mine. My medic question there.
Yeah. So, so I think,
let me answer your two
part questions. So I think
it's our hope that we
eventually get out of the
engineering ghetto, although we love
engineers. That's great. Eventually we
want to take enough baby
steps that we actually get
to, you know, the I'm
going to make my own
bow enthusiasts site. That's awesome
because I mean, our goal
is really to support communities
like that. As long as
there's enough people to reach
a little mini critical mass
and it doesn't have to
be thousands of people, it
could be a few hundred
that really love it. That's
fine. I don't think he
would spend a ton of
time on the homepage. I
mean, generally you're drilling through
pretty rapidly to the question.
I mean, the question pages
are the meat of the
site, the front page is
just, you know, you know,
it's trying to show you
a veneer of like, okay,
this is the boundaries of
the topics that we're talking
about. So you can get
a sense of, am I
in the right place? Am
I in like a biker
bar? You know, where everybody's
looking at me? Like, what
are you doing here? And
if I'm not a biker,
you know, that's, that's the
way it should be looking
at me. Right. So that's
actually kind of, okay, it's
actually okay for it to
be a little intimidating because
you want the right people
to stay. You know, the
people that love, you know,
hand building these bows spending
weeks, lacquering it, that's your
people, right? Those are the
people that you want to
not be intimidated. Like, Oh,
I, I I've spent weeks
building this. Doesn't intimidate me
in the slightest. When you
see a question that says,
how many months should I
be working on my heel
on my bow, that should,
that would scare away a
normal person. And that's good.
Right? So that's, that's my
part, answer to that. It's
meant to be a tiny
bit intimidating until you drill
through the question page. And
then as for the, the
second part of your question,
which I think I've already
forgotten, can you, Sometimes people
just want to talk and
these guys will just talk.
And like an example of
talking to you would be
on the, on, on thinking
about all these hobbies, right?
There's a million hobbyists out
there that have a million
hobbies and sometimes they just
want to post pictures of
them. So it's like, Hey,
here's this Bo I've been
working on. Here's the story
about how I made it?
What do you think? And
then people will talk and
on stack overflow, if I
posted a question, said, here's
this program I've been working
on, here's the code? What
do you think I'd be
like immediately, you know, shot.
And they would tell me
that I was off topic,
Right? So there's definitely a
tension there. It's definitely a
by design thing that we
discourage sort of arbitrary discussion
because Robert Scoble had a
really good post where he
documented exactly why this is,
because if there's too much,
you want some discussion, but
not too much, because if
there's too much discussion, you're
not really learning anymore. You're
just a couple of guys
hanging out, shooting the shooting,
the breeze. And there's nothing
wrong with that. But if
your goal is like, look,
I want to get really
good at building these Wells.
That's my number one goal
is to like build my
bow. Then that kind of
starts harming the mission at
some point. And I think
that's one of the big
problems with existing discussion boards
is they make it so
easy to fall into that
trap of like you, a
couple of people just shooting
the breeze and the information,
the signal to noise ratio
goes in the wrong direction.
Like a lot, like very,
very far in the wrong
direction. So we unapologetically optimize
for information where you say,
look, unless it's a question
about the topics, it can
have a reasonable answer, then
we don't think you should
ask it. Now, this is
definitely frustrating for certain people
because you certainly on stack
overflow and even super user
and server fall, we've formed
some really nice communities of
smart people that know a
lot of stuff. And they're
actually really interesting people to
talk to. I mean, they're
there, I mean, brilliant. Some
of them, and I think
any community is going to
have that. So I think
maybe the answer is, and
we haven't fully mapped the
topography of this world yet
is that you actually have
some sort of back room.
We have a metal site
on stack overflow, but even
that has to be on
topic about, okay, you're talking
about the website itself. You're
not two guys hanging out
talking about each other, what
your, you know, where your
kids are going to college
or whatever, but they're actually,
maybe even needs to be
a third place that you
have. You'd have say, let's
pick a server fault, which
is about system administrators. She
would have server fault. You'd
have a server fault, which
we kind of don't have.
We have aggregated one at
the moment, but it would
be meta about just that
site. And then actually even
a third site, which would
be like off topic dot
server fault.com. And you would
actually go there if you
just wanted to talk about,
you know, whatever with these
people that you've grown to
like, but I feel so
many of these, these, these
forum engines optimized for discussion
to the detriment of information
that I think it's okay
for us to be a
little bit on the extreme
side of like we're optimizing
for information. You know, we're,
we're making it really hard
to have discussion because I
think people follow the scent
of information because I think
ultimately that's what people want.
All the discussion is great.
There's nothing wrong with it.
In terms of adding value
to the world, information is
what does it, quality breadcrumb
trails have really good information
that, you know, there's no
other place in the world
that can tell you exactly
how to build a bow
in the way that these
guys do. And there's a
whole community of people, you
know, pumping out the really
fantastic, brilliant information on how
they're doing this. And we're
unlocking that world. And the
people that are attracted to
the sense of that information
will ultimately build a stronger
community. Even though there's not
technically hangout places and discussion
stuff, you eventually will have
this, this supernova of information,
because that is the thing
that comes to the top
in our system. And we
think it does that really,
really well better than almost
any other system. So for
those types of people, that
attracted information, I think it's
irresistible now. There's for the
people that are less into
the information and more into
the hangout, there might be
other places you would want
to go. There can be
more than one community on
this topic. Ours is going
to be very information centric.
So I think you have
sort of figured out like
where you are on that
axis. Are you mostly about
the information, a little bit
about the hanging out? Are
you totally about the hanging
out? Normally I just they'll
be both. Cause I like
hanging out with these guys,
you know, I hear the
passion in Your voice, so
I'll just give you some
like my opinion and stuff.
So take, take it and
throw it away. But I
think that if you want
to take over the internet
in a larger sense, you've
got to you're you're you're,
you're talking too much like
a programmer you're talking too
much. I mean, yes. Information
is King, blah, blah, blah.
School will blah, blah, blah
tech crunch. But there are
some people who want the
community is just the collaboration
and the questions are secondary.
And I think that if
you want to get the,
the, the needle point ladies
and the bow hunting mustache
people, you gotta realize that,
that they, they, they may
want to just chat about
stuff. And I think that
you're so close. You're like
85% there. You could have
a chat about stuff, interface
for stack overflow. Like let's
say that you had another
John skeet, right? A bow
and arrow using mustache, John
skeet, except he provides not
answers and brilliance, but just
a sense of community. He's
just the chattiest, most friendly
slap you on the back.
Here's a beer guy. He
should get points in reputation
for that too, because he
makes people feel good about
the community, but that person
doesn't exist from a score
perspective and a stack overflow
instance, but he would be
a great person to do
needle point and bow and
arrows with, Well, we were
in a meeting this week
with Neil bash as part
of the New York city think
week thing that we did.
And he actually made an
interesting observation, which I do
agree with that the engine
may only work for communities
where there's this core of
information where that that's the
thing that we sort of
suck out as like, okay,
we suck out all the
information. And then the people
that were not really about
the information, they're just like,
okay, you know, they, they
may need another place to
go. You may be, you
may be segregating the audiences
at that point. I'm not
against adding things to the
engine. I'm always open to
adding things that make sense.
And part of the reason
we're doing this is as
we, we grow these communities
and have these different communities,
we want the engine to
evolve and become better. So
I'm totally open to, to,
you know, changing it, to
make it more adaptable. These
communities, as long as we're
satisfying the core mission of
like filling the internet with
really good information and some
discussion, you know, I mean,
it's okay to have fun.
Like I had to write
a whole blog post on
the stack overflow blog about
like, look, it's okay to
occasionally have fun questions. We're
not all business. We're not
like you can never ask
anything fun or you will
be crushed by the boot
heel of, you know, the
moderation system on stack overflow.
That is not really the
case. But what you have
to understand is that if
it's too much fun, it
becomes no longer about the
information. It's like, Oh wow,
this is fun. We were,
And it's fun. Like, you
know, woo hoo. Look at
this funny video and Hey,
keyboard, cat, play them off.
I'm just talking about community
in the kind of huggy
kissy kind of way. And
not in the talking about
answers. I think, I think
you're, I think you're right.
And I think my point
is that there's a certain
percentage of it. There's a
certain balance ratio. That's good
for that. And when we
calibrate little, you know, community
auditors, we're sliding the sliders
over to certain positions and
it's heavy on the information
side, but we do allow
some fun and that's intentional.
And I think we do
allow some discussion because I
mean, you have to have
some discussion, even understand the
question that's being asked, right?
There's a certain amount that
you just have to have.
He can get things done
on the system. So I
am open to adjusting these
sliders. What I'm not open
to though probably is like,
when people say, Hey, you've
built a truck. That's great.
It's the truck is great,
but I really want a
sports car. You know? So
I think we have to,
as we grow, we've gotta
figure out, okay, you really
want a sports. If you
really want a sports car,
you should buy a sports
car. You know? I mean,
there's certain things we can
never fully adapt to, but
you know, if you're in
a truck, you gotta carry
six people and they just
get in the bed of
the truck, right. It's not
super comfortable, but Hey, they're
riding, they're getting to their
destination and the truck it's
not optimal. But at the
point where it's like, Hey,
this is, you know, we're
always riding in the back
of your truck, let's close
it up and turn it
into a bus. Then, you
know, you gotta be careful.
I mean, it's just, it's
just a balancing act, but
I am very, very open
to tweaking these little sliders
a little bit in each
direction, depending on the, the
tone of the community. As
long as it's is sacrifice
our core mission of, you
know, you gotta love the
information first. I mean, if
you, if you want to
just hang out with people,
you should really be on
Facebook. I think Facebook is
going to eventually dominate the
internet in that way, for
those communities that you're talking
about. I can't see any
future other than the dystopian,
everybody's on Facebook solution for
those guys, because for them
it's about the social graph.
It's about hanging out and
stuff and you know, some
amount of that we do
want, but it's people, it's
information first relationship second. And
whereas Facebook is relationships. First
information. Third. So the question
of where you, you balance
that. Well, Jeff, thank you
so much for coming on
the show and talking about
stack overflow. Well, at least
the short week we'll replace
the stack overflow podcast. That's
right. We will definitely. Yeah.
Thanks for having me on.
Thanks so much. Alright. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and we'll see
you again next week.